to war after day four stay with me uh
because we've got some breaking news now
Israeli media reports various Israeli
media Outlets reporting uh that 13
Israeli captives uh being held by hamus
in the Gaza Strip have been released now
to the international Committee of the
Red Cross if correct uh that signals the
beginning of a sequenced process now in
which uh as we saw on Friday those
captives will be taken by the
International Red Cross to a medical
facility checked over then flown uh by
Israeli military uh aircraft to an air
base in the south of Israel and
eventually finding their way uh to Al
Sheba I believe Hospital in Tel Aviv uh
we await confirmation of those reports
but it does appear uh that the second
phase of uh captive release is on way
Maran indicating that a 2hour delay has
not necessarily amounted to any major
hiccup in the
process I bring to you what what I
mentioned earlier about Egypt suggesting
yesterday that it's hearing positive
signals from all sides that they may be
willing to continue this process at
least for another couple of days the
negotiators of course will be wanting to
announce that as soon as
possible a sense of momentum buying a
little bit more time for some of those
moves that you were discussing in the
International Community to my
understanding is that the Karis are now
more
intensively uh involved in
discussions uh that the Egyptians and
the Americans and my understanding is
that over the weekend President Biden
himself is getting uh personally
involved in seeing where this thing
going through of course the Americans
want to know how many more Americans or
dual nationality are being released or
will be released and and and if not all
of them then maybe the four days will be
extended to 56 and so on so forth so I
think what we're seeing especially also
judging from what you just said now the
breaking news is that uh the pilots are
working the first day the second day
probably we seeing the process we seeing
an oiled an oil a well oiled machine now
starting to move forward and I think a
lot of the people including a good
segment of the public opinion in
Israel as well as in the United States
would like to see this extended would'
like to see more captives more hostages
released would like to see more
Palestinian prisoners uh released and
clearly uh there is at least on the part
of certain Europeans at this point in
time the majority of the Arab and the
Muslim world and I think much of the
world would like to see a ceasefire
would like to see the so-called
humanitarian policies move to be more of
a temporary or a permanent ceasefire I
think that's the general direction it's
not to the liking of Netanyahu or his
General en but I think in as far as the
generals are concerned they just want a
decision either way right because what
they don't want is to be stuck like they
are today that is that does not work
well for any any military so either
they're going to so-called continue with
the mission achieve the objectives
whatever they are at this point they're
becoming more like pipe dream or
withdraw we'll come back to you in a
moment we're going to go to sarak kyat
now in Tel Aviv to give us more uh on
that breaking news that we heard Sara
are you hearing any more on these
reports that 13 Israeli captives have
now been handed over to the I
icrc yeah Israeli uh media is reporting
uh sources but nothing has officially
been confirmed what we have seen though
is that it's also quoting Egyptian media
is saying that they had received a list
of 14 names so really we're seeing 13
and 14 again those two numbers are yet
uh to be confirmed and until we actually
see uh those videos uh which will likely
if we go by what happened yesterday
Hamas did uh um release a video showing
those held captive being released now uh
what we know is that they apparently
have been now handed over from Hamas uh
to uh the Red Cross we've also heard uh
reports by uh the media that they are
all from one uh area which is uh bayi
which is the place uh where uh the
attack on October 7 happened one of the
places where a lot of those were killed
that's where uh that where a lot of
these people will be from um and they
will be sent to a different hospital
again reports to the one from yesterday
which was a children's hospital
interestingly those uh captives
yesterday were all but one from another
area another southern uh town uh uh with
just close uh to bi so again still
developing story uh we have a rally here
that's happening where uh many expected
to come here thousands in fact uh and
there will be performances behind us
while there are also big screens that
will be following everyone will be
following the situation and we're seeing
people walking around on their mobile
phones just as we saw yesterday as
people wait to see those um captives
handed over through Rafa Crossing uh via
Egypt to uh a specialist Israeli unit
that's what uh was said yesterday they
are specialized in these kind of
situations with medical professional
help uh that will check them medically
first before they are then crossed over
through the border crossing as we saw
Yesterday by bus taken to a Israeli
military base and then helicoptered to
the hospitals we've also been seeing
Israeli media reporting that uh the
families of those held captive already
been informed to make their way to
either the one hospital or a number of
hospitals but so far we're being told
that it's just to One hospital again
this is a moving story so that
information is trickling through and
nothing is yet confirmed and Sarah just
to explain to viewers the main picture
on our screen uh beside you there is of
beun Crossing uh as it appears the
Israeli captive release has now taken
place it means of course in train that
the pal imprisoner release will also
take place at that betunia Crossing um
in the coming hour or two perhaps based
on what happened on Friday night uh
immense relief I imagine where you are
Sara uh there would have been some
concern about the
delay um yeah sorry I just want to uh
say that we're also hearing again now
that they're saying 13 people 13
captives not 14 um so until we
officially confirm it but it seems that
has changed once again to 13 uh going
back to your question um of course
emotions here have been very high uh
people are saying that uh they now feel
a little bit more hopeful um there had
also been reports in Israeli uh media
earlier saying that there could be a
potential they're actually quoting
Egyptian sources saying that there could
be a potential extension to that
ceasefire that uh based on all parties
requesting or looking towards that same
direction um but then another Israeli uh
media Outlet then quoted a senior
official without giving names saying uh
that that's likely highly unlikely to be
declared or decided on at least
certainly this early in the uh 4day
pause and that would probably be
something they would discuss closer to
the end of the 4day pause but going back
we know that Hamas has said that they
would be looking to release more
captives there's also reports again just
in the last last couple of hours saying
that they've managed to locate more of
those captives because Hamas has said
when the war started on Gaza it seems
that the captives were taken to
different locations and some of them
have been held by Islamic Jihad so now
they're saying according to Israeli
media it seems that Hamas is saying that
they have located more 10 to 20 was the
number given um and that they could
potentially then uh be able to release
more we know Hamas has said that it was
willing to release not just women and
children but look to release past 4day
males they said it would not include any
of the Israeli soldiers and we also know
on the other side that prime minister
Benjamin netan who said one of the war
goals is to bring all of them back and
that he would potentially consider
extending it for every 10 captives they
would get an extra day of PA and
fighting an extra day of ceasefire so
again all speculative it's all up in the
air but what I can tell you from this
Square that's become known as hostage
Square because the families gather here
and so do their supporters they've said
they will continue to hold the rallies
here and certainly thousands are
expected to attend uh today where some
of those families of those captives will
be speaking later
on okay Sarah I know we'll be back
talking to you as events unfold during
the evening thanks for that for the
moment s Sarah K